12/09/2025  TIME   PST

Lost the window after your last response, Clyde, but before the words start to fade I wanted to respond.

In the book of John, the Jewish leaders are accusing Jesus of all sorts of falsehoods.  John 8: 57 - 58 reads:  "Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and has thou seen Abraham?  Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I Am."  They tried to kill him for saying that because they knew he was equating himself, not with Jehovah, but with who/what ever it was that spoke to Moses on that mountain.  He was also making it clear that prior to the time of Abraham, Jehovah was not who the Jews would have worshipped.  

It was Abraham who first kicked off monotheism officially.  You can look it up to get the wording verbatim, but in the Midrash, there is a story about Abraham and his father, Terah.  Terah was in the business of creating idols which he then sold.  He had to go out of town for awhile, so he put Abraham in charge of giving offerings to all the idols in Terah's workshop.  Abraham, already having the idea that idols were useless trinkets only, broke up all the idols and put their pieces in the lap of the largest idol, which he had left intact.  When Terah returned and saw what was done, he confronted Abraham and asked him what had happened.  Abraham says; Isn't it obvious?  That large idol broke up all of the smaller ones so that he would get all of the offerings.  And Terah says to him;  That's ridiculous.  I make these idols myself.  They don't have any power to do what you are claiming!  And Abraham responds;  Let your ears hear the words your mouth has spoken.  Again, you can look up the text for the accurate language, but the meaning is essentially what I wrote above.  But this suggests that what Jesus was saying to his accusers was basically, "I've been around since before Abraham even knew the true God, and before the overlay of Jehovah was slapped on top of all the other names of your tribal gods."Concerning the name of, "The Mother", when "the woman" is first presented to Adam, God asks Adam what he will call her.  He responds, "Eve, for she is the Mother of all living."  In our temple endowment ordinance, at this point God replies, "That is right.  She IS [emphasis in original] the Mother of all living."  As the woman had yet to have any children, the present tense Adam uses, i.e., "...she IS the Mother of ALL living," indicates Adam was naming the woman he was given in honor of the One Mother of everything, and he says that name is "Eve".

You know, I was raised in the LDS church, and in all my years, not one single time have I ever heard anyone zero in on that.  Not in speaking, not in any of the books (which are Legion) written by the LDS church general authorities.  But there it is, plain as the noses on their faces.